# Lab 8: Statistical Computing with R

### GGplot in R

After making a DataCamp account, the first exercise in the ggplot part 1 course is simply imporing the library ggplot2, viewing the provided mtcars data with `str()`, and actually generating the plot showin below using the call to ggplot. The `geom_point()` layer can simply be added onto the plot with the `+` operator. The `aes()` function lets us specify what data columns we want to map the graph's x,y varialbes. Using the same call, we can also specify dot size, dot color, and many other things.

!(part1)[ggplot_part1.png]

In the next example, we make the same plot but make the `factor()` call to the `cyl` varialbe, which eliminates some unnessecary entries from the x axis, since cyl is no longer treated as a continuous variable.

!(part2)[ggplot_part2.png

In the third exercise, we plot the data on a car wieght vs miles per gallon graph, and add color based on the displacement varialbe, and a dot size based on displacement. The dot size is the one displayed below. The sizes and colors are autogenerated nicely by R. 

!(part3)[ggplot_part3.png]

When asked what the error message meant, it was that the shape field expects discrete data, not a continuous type of data.

!(part3.1)[ggplot_part3_v2.png]

In the fourth exercise, we plot the price versus carat of 1000 diamonds, and we can add a smooth line of best fit using `+ geom_smooth()`. 

!(part4)[ggplot_part4.png]

For the fifth exercise, we can assign the color variable to the calrity column, and set a fade into the points on the graph, with `geom_point(alpha = 0.4)`. This lets dots fade out as they move further from the origin. Note that color takes the discrete field `clairty`, which is not continuous. 

!(part5)[ggplot_part5.png]

The sixth exercise lets us do the same thing, using 'layers' instead. We can save the plot as `dia_plot`, and then put layers onto it with successive calls.

!(part6)[ggplot_part6.png]

The seventh and final exercise in this part lets us display lines of best fit per clarity category, by generating the plot, adding a `geom_smooth()` layer with the se flag set to false, then passing the `aes()` function and mapping color to clarity for those lines in the `geom_smooth()` layer. This generates the plot below.

!(part7)[ggplot_part7.png]


### Regressions in R

We can plot a regression line for mario_kart data by specifying a function of `totalPr ~ wheels + cond` which maps the line to the number of wheels included in a kit, and the condition of the kit. The condused difference shows that the used kits with the same number of wheels is roughly 5.5 dollars cheaper than a new one.

!(regression part1)[regression_part1.png]

The second exercise shows that we can augment the data with `augment()`, and color the scatterplot using `aes()` like we did before. We can add the `geom_line()` layer to the data and set the y variable to the .fitted column of the data, which was generated after calling `augment()` on the data model.

!(regression part2)[regression_part2.png]

The third exercise gives us a new data set, data on babies. We can come up with multiple regression with the line below:

!(regression part3)[regression_part3.png]

To generate regressions for the plot shown below, we would need to execute the following line:

!(regression part4)[regression_part4.png]

### Project Updates

GitHub Repository:

[GitHub](https://github.com/saxocellphone/MagicVoicing)

For communication, we use a private Mattermost channel.

Observatory Page:

[RCOS Observatory](https://rcos.io/projects/saxocellphone/magicvoicing/profile)

